---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-01-26
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---

<p>This is my first time coding in HTML, CSS, and Javascript. I had difficulty completeing the three BrowserHistory at Rx times. Although I had to redo my WOD's multiple times, I was able to gain a better understanding of how to manipulate the code. I was able to complete the code on an average time, as it didn't have CSS formatting. However, the second and third WOD gave me the most trouble. It took me a long time to figure out how to get the placements correctly. The first and second WOD just took time to figure out and when I did I redid the process multiple times before I got it at Rx time. The third WOD was where I had to use the video to help me figure out most of the CSS formating.</p>

<p>BrowserHistory 1 wasn't difficult as it just took time to write the code. However, what took the most time was organizing each section so I knew which parts were connected. I also struggled on inseting the table of contents, but I was able to figure it out after watching the video. I was able to complete it in Rx time after 5 attempts as I was remmebering the code better. BrowserHistory 2 took me 3 attempts and I had trouble changing the font. I forogt that I needed to insert a link to the fonts. I forgot how the numbers were organizedd for the margins but I was able to figure it out by the third attempt. BrowserHistory 3 gave me the most problems as most of it was CSS formatting. Formatting the three columns gave me the most problems as I couldn't get the midddle column to line up with the others. The right and left column would align perfectly but the middle column would give me the most trouble. Although BrowserHistory 2 made me think a little harder, BrowserHistory 3 wouldn't have been possible without the video. Initially, I thought this would be the easiest as the Rx timer was the shortest, but that wasn't the case. I was working on this code for a couple hours and began to get frustrated that I couldn't figure it out since I had other homework as well. Finally, I decided to watch the video and I was able to complete the WOD at Rx time. </p>

<p> My advice to future coding students is to read and understand the directions before getting started. If you go as you read and get stuck half way then it'll be very difficult to figure out the problem. Understanding the directions beforehand will save you more time. I'd also advise students to not use the internet as this could confuse you more. Although the internet has a lot of information, you will need to go through a lot of forums before you get the code correct. Not to mention, it could get you more confused how to code the CSS formating. Every forum will provide useful information but that information won't apply to all your homeworks. I'd recommend asking the teachers and TA's before consuling the internet. This would save you the work and make your life less stressful. </p>
