---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Preparing for WODs Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-11
published: true
labels:
  - WOD
---

<h1> Summary </h1>
<p>After BrowserHistory 1-3, I felt more confident completeing the other WOD assignments. It made me more excited to do new WODS as they gave me a good way to determining my skill. Firstly, the BrowserHistory WODs were the simipliest to accomplism and understand. This was my first time work with CSS and it was confusing to understand but the videos helped break down teh code. Then "SmartPhoneProducts1_variables" was the first time I hadd to code with "document.write()" instad of hard coding values. This WOD took some time to figure out but I was able to complete in Rx time on my second try. Finally, "Invoice1" required me to work with variables to create a invoice receipt. This WOD was the most difficult as I had to refer back to the readings a lot to understand what the WOD was asking for. I also had to watch the video to understand some parts of the coding. </p>

For more details, here are the links to my WOD: 

* [Invoice1](https://github.com/ntu61002/ITM352_S23_repo/tree/main/WODs/Invoice1)

<h1> Invoice 1 </h1>
<p>This WOD took the most attempts for me because I had a hard time understanding parts of the code. My first attempt went over 40+ minutes because I was referring to the reading to try and understand the WOD better. Similarly to the other WODs, I always refer to the readings to help me write the code so I don't get confused on what the WOD was asking for. I was also working manually, so instead of using "ctrl F" to replace functions I would copy and paste. TThis really slowed me down as now I know I should be using the find and replace function. I also made many tiny errors that would take me a long time to figure out. For example, I wouldn't capitalize or I'm mistyped a word. This would complete destroy my code and it wouldn't run properly. In the recording, it showed towards the end as I was having trouble figuring out why the total function wasn't adding the tax. But after a while, I was found out it was because I put "subtotal" instead of "total."  However, I was always able to figure out the structure of the code. I would only watch the video on some ddetails that I've missed.</p>

<h1> Conclusion </h1>
<p>Overall, I believe that I should try to work slower and analyze the code that I am typing. This is to minimize mistakes in the long run so I don't have to keep going back to recheck the code. I should also make sure the code is functioning before I copy and paste them four times. This is so that I'm not confused on what I did wrong. I should limit myself to writing 7 lines of code and checking if its functioning before I move on. This will save me more time on the WODs and it will help me easily pinpoint my mistakes. </p>
