---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-4-22
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details.
<p> Assignment 2 used Assignment 1 but we had to include a log-in page, register page, and edit log-in page. When the user enters the site they will see all the avaliable products. Once they choose the items they want, users are direted to a log-in pag where you can log in with an existing account or register for a new account. They will need to enter a valid email with the correct password. Once they finish signing up they will be redirected to the invoice page that has a personalized message with their name and email. I also had to include a user counter at the top of the invoice page that kept track of logged in users. At the bottom of the page, they can choose to return to the display page or change their password. [Essay 5 instructions](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html) </p>

2. What did you learn about this assignment?
<p> I learned how to create validations for logins and sign-ups. Specifically validating the email address and if the password matches what was in the database. When registering I also had a password validation that would check if the password matches with the repeated password. I also had a length limit for the name and a legnth requirement for the password. </p>

3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
<p> I did not work with partner. </p>

4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
<p> When I encourntered a problem I would use ChatGPT or I joined professor ports zoom sessions for help. I mainly needed help with my IR5 but I was able to figure it out once I professor port gave me some directions. He gave the first part of the code and I was able to figure it the rest of the code on my own. </p>

5. How was developing this assignment different than Assignment 1?
<p> When developing assignment 1 I was mainly focused on creating and designing the website. Although the code took time to figure out which made it very time consuming. Assignment 1 felt more labor intensive while assignment 2 felt like it took more thinking. I had to do validations and sign ups which took me more time to figure out. I'd say the main difference was how I had to figure out the code. 

6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing), (c) testing and debugging
<p> I spent 20% thinking about how to do something, 50% writing code, and 30% testing and debugging. I try to not spend much time thinking as I won't know if something works unless I try it. This was why I spent more time writing and testing the code. I think this would be a good way for me to approach assignment 3 as testing code will allow me to do process of elimination so I know what works and what doesn't. I definitely took more time testing my code rather than thinking as when I see problems show up I try to figure out what is causing that. My biggest mistake was capitalization and that broke my code when I submitted assignment in cyberduck.</p>

7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
<p> I was able to create the validation for users when they register or change their information. I was also able to generate the error messages easily as I referenced previous labs and wods. What didn't work well was how long it took me to ddo my IR5 which I ended up asking professor port for help. I thinking too hard about the code and making it more complicated than it needed to be which was why I had trouble. When I asked professor port for help, he made me think simply which was why I was able to figure it out so easily after asking him for help. 

8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
<p> If I could go back in time, I would take more breaks inbetween to have a fresh mind and think about the code differently. I would smash my head in the code and try to figure out the problem. This made me take longer to figure out the code as I wasn't trying different things out and was just trying to fix little things about what I've done. So for assignment 3 I will try to take more breaks inbetween each code session when I stuck so I am able to relax and recharge. 
