---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Reflecting on Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-5-11
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
---

<h1>1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)</h1>
<p> A store selling clothes (Shirts, hoodies, pants, and hats). </p>

<h1>2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?</h1>
<p>I was able to fulfill all the requirements and the extra credit requirement. I have a very basic website design. I heavily relied on w3schools tutorials as a reference and professor ports Zoom sessions to fix some problems I was having. I was also watching a lot of youtube tutorials to help with the website design but I didn’t reference them since I mainly used them for ideas. </p>

<h1>3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:</h1>
<p>I’m most proud of my navbar and the shopping cart. These were the biggest problems in my code and I had trouble carrying out what I wanted. I was able to make a design that I was satisifed with and it functions properly. When I first started working on my navbar they words kept grouping up on each other and I couldn't test if it worked because I could only click on the home tab. The shopping cart was also difficult because I had to record the invoice section so that when I clicked on the shopping cart it wouldn't go stragiht to the login page. I was able to figure these out with the help of w3schools tutorials, forums, and some youtube videos. After I finished the shopping cart I wasn't sure why I had so much problems because the code was simplier than I thought.Although I can make a lot of design improvements, I am very glad that I was able to finish. </p>

<h1>4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:</h1>
<p>I really wanted to attempt some of the other individual IRs and they seemed cool to implement into the site. However, I didn’t have enough time as I spent a lot of time writing the code for my star rating and I had to make time to test the code for any bugs that may occur. I had trouble getting the rating in the invoice to save so that it would be included the rating counts. My IR is definitely something that I least happy with in my system.</p>

<h1>5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?</h1>
<p>This assignment was more difficult as I was having trouble implementing the nodemailer into my code. I wasn’t sure how to get the code to send an email after every purchase to the users email. However, it was a simple fix as I just had to use a different host instead of "mail.hawaii.edu" but I had to change it when I submitted it into the class server. Although I used the same color scheme as the other assignments I spent a lot of time fixing the navbar and the design of the site to make it nicer. I also changed the positioning of the pictures so that it saves more space on the page.</p>

<h1>6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?</h1>
<p>When I ran into a problem I would use the internet and chatGPT for help. Although I didn’t want to use ChatGPT, at times it was helpful but I had to know what to use. But when I found tutorials on w3schools it was also a big help in writing my code. I was also joining the zoom sessions for help and professor port helped me alot eventhough I had very confusing code after consulting the forums. I have a bad habit of making the code more complicated than it needed to be and that was also another reason why I took a long time on my code.</p>


<h1>7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?</h1>
<p>I referenced the mail code from the example and that helped me out a lot. I changed some things so that it worked better with my code but I was also only able to do that because of W3 schools. The Assignment 3 examples were very helpful for me when I was making my code as it was a good reference. </p>


<h1>8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?</h1>
<p>I started this assignment late because I didn’t want to change anything until we finished the Cookies and sessions lab. After I started working on it I realized that I didn’t need to wait to finish the lab because there were areas that I could have worked on. For example, the navbar could have been worked on as I was learning about the cookies and sessions. My time management was very poor eventhough I told myself to work on this earlier but I was procrastinating my code and it made me fall behind.</p>


<h1>9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?</h1>
<p>I improved my research skills as I knew what to look for and what to trust. I was reading forums and I realized that they weren’t the best tool as everyone had different problems. I learned to use w3 schools and other sites to write my code. </p>

<h1>10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?</h1>
<p>I would like to add some dropdown menus in my code as I feel that will make the site look a lot nicer. Instead of having the navbar in the middle, I would have a dropdown navbar menu in the corner of the site. This would save more space and be better to look at. </p>

<h1>11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing), (c) testing and debugging.</h1>
<p>I spent 40% thinking about how to do something, 40% writing code, and 20% testing and debugging. When I was working on this code, I had a bad habit of working until I felt burnt out. This was a bad way to work as when there were problems I had trouble thinking outside the box. However, when I took a break to calm down I was able to think of new solutions to my problems. I don’t recommend my work style as feeling burnt out is very ineffectual and constantly slamming your head into the code won’t help you figure it out.</p>

<h1>12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to teh assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”).</h1>
<p>I worked alone. </p>


